---
layout: post
title: Net Neutrality
subtitle: The Fight for an Open Internet
image: /img/net_neut_square.jpg
bigimg: /img/net_neut1.jpg
---

TL;DR: The Internet is a key part of society but is being threatened by massive industries that are lobbying for an end to Net Neutrality. Action must be taken in order to preserve the Internet as we know it.

American livelihood and culture is under attack, but not from whom you would expect. Instead of being threatened by external threats, cultural norms are now targeted by large companies within the United States. The telecommunication industry is now fighting Net Neutrality, which should raise concerns from every citizen. Net neutrality has been a heated debate over the past decade as the Internet has grown into every aspect of society. Simply put, net neutrality is "the principle that Internet service providers (ISPs) should give consumers access to all legal content and applications on an equal basis, without favoring some sources or blocking others" (Snider, n. pag.). As it is now, Internet access is protected by this concept, which has allowed for businesses based on the Internet to grow substantially. Due to the potential of losing an open Internet, action and protest against these actions and companies is needed to help maintain the American way of life.

One question often posed is "What does net neutrality mean to me." Any user of the Internet is guaranteed access to everything legal on the Internet with uniform priority. This means that ISPs are not legally allowed to charge more for any type of content or data that a user may access. The suppliers of the US's Internet must allow for everything to be accessed regardless of how much data and costs ISPs may incur, whether it is video, images, text, data from a partner company, or a new start-up. Because of an act by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) in early 2015, the free flow of content known as net neutrality is guaranteed by the United States. Only two years have passed, but with a new president and federal government being controlled by conservative Republicans, this freedom that people take for granted is now being trampled on.

Chairman of the FCC, Ajit Pai, has opposed net neutrality for years and has stepped up his efforts to revoke it now that President Trump is in the White House. Chairman Pai has no concrete reason but wanting to have "'voluntary' compliance with net neutrality rules" and his idea that without neutrality, there will be more competition (Wu, n. pag.). This idea, however, is incredibly flawed. Without the protection that the FCC provides consumers, cable, Internet, and phone companies would be able to charge more depending on which services they desire to promote. This could result in ISPs charging more for video services such as Netflix so that they gain prioritized Internet speeds to keep their customers happy. This increase in cost to the content providers would force them to increase the price of their product, thusly hurting consumers. Additionally, companies could voluntarily pay ISPs to have their content be provided at faster speeds and pay for promotion. This possibility would result in businesses paying an exuberant amount of money to get priority. While this could benefit the ISPs and potentially the economy, it would cause a rift between giant corporations and small, homegrown businesses. Small companies would not be able to pay the ISPs the money required to promote their content, and due to this, would not grow or go out of business. So while Republicans may say that net neutrality is harmful and that repealing it would benefit the economy, it would only benefit big businesses, not the economy and country as a whole.

The abolition of net neutrality could result in a slippery slope that few could imagine. It could start with an economic disaster in which small businesses struggle and massive corporations control the market, but end with mass censorship. As stated, without net neutrality ISPs could determine what content they choose to show to their users. While this already sounds horrific, it could lead to an even worse case scenario where these companies could be influenced to only show specific search results, and in doing so silence their other users. Instead of the Internet being a place where information is available to anyone and where anyone can share their opinion with the world, the Internet could end up being a platform for censorship. Citizens could potentially be limited to only one view instead of differing opinions without their knowledge. While this is a worst-case scenario, it is one that must not happen.

To combat this, action needs to be taken by the masses. Before the vote on net neutrality back in 2015, "more than four million people wrote to the F.C.C. to demand stronger controls on the cable industry" (Wu, n. pag.). With the FCC voting in favor of net neutrality back then due to this message sent by the people, it seems necessary to send this message once again. But it will require more than just some letters to get the voice of the people heard. People must be made aware of what is happening. Spreading awareness of this issue is critical in ensuring that net neutrality is left intact. The more people that are aware and knowledgeable about the problem, the more pressure that can be put on the government to resolve it. Companies must also join the fight so that the bureaucrats in Washington will take notice of the wants of their constituents, and the companies that support them. While "Much of Silicon Valley and Hollywood have supported both net neutrality and the Democratic party", showing support may not be enough to secure the results needed (Wu, n. pag.). Silicon Valley, as well as the rest of technology industry in this country, must join the people and protest the FCC's attempt to repeal net neutrality. Whether this is marching and protesting, writing into representatives, or even lobbying for neutrality, support must be shown by the people and industries together.

The Internet is a necessity in today's day and age. It is a place where anyone and everyone is entitled to share their opinions, debate, or even create their own business. It becomes a more diverse and interesting system every single day, and so it must be preserved. With the threat of an end to net neutrality, the Internet that has become a staple in America is in danger. The chairman of the FCC, as well as the Republican party, intend to repeal net neutrality. This cannot happen. It could result in an economic downturn, and even censorship. The American people must take action by protesting, spreading awareness, and writing to their federal representatives so that the Internet as we know it can be maintained. An open and free flowing Internet is a luxury that millions take for granted. It is the duty of every citizen to make sure that it is conserved.



Citations:

<a title="Buzzword Bingo: Net Neutrality" href="https://flickr.com/photos/planeta/12238594336">Buzzword Bingo: Net Neutrality</a> flickr photo by <a href="https://flickr.com/people/planeta">planeta</a> shared under a <a href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/2.0/">Creative Commons (BY-SA) license</a>

<a title="Protest at the White House for Net Neutrality" href="https://flickr.com/photos/josephgruber/15109096143">Protest at the White House for Net Neutrality</a> flickr photo by <a href="https://flickr.com/people/josephgruber">joseph.gruber</a> shared under a <a href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/2.0/">Creative Commons (BY-NC-ND) license</a>

<a href= "https://www.usatoday.com/story/tech/2015/02/24/net-neutrality-what-is-it-guide/23237737/">Snider, Mike, Emily Brown, and Roger Yu. "What Is Net Neutrality and What Does It Mean for Me?" USA Today. Gannett Satellite Information Network, 27 Feb. 2015. Web. 28 Apr. 2017.</a>

<a href= "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/28/opinion/the-fix-for-net-neutrality-that-consumers-dont-need.html?_r=0"> Wu, Tim. "The ‘Fix’ for Net Neutrality That Consumers Don’t Need." The New York Times. The New York Times, 28 Apr. 2017. Web. 28 Apr. 2017.</a>
