---
layout: post
title: Google and Google Accounts
subtitle: Convenient for Both Users and Thieves
image: /img/google_small.jpg
bigimg: /img/google.jpg
---

TL;DR: Although Google has made some incredible tools that make life easier for the consumers of the world, with everything in one place, if one account gets compromised, one’s whole world can be turned upside down.

In today’s society, it seems that everything needs to be intertwined with something else. Social media and the Internet have transformed the way we live. One example is the use of Google for practically everything. Although it started out as a search engine so that people could find anything on the Internet, it has continued to grow and merge with other necessities. Today, even though the search engine is still incredibly popular, Google has seeped deeper into our lives. Now millions of people use Google Chrome for their Internet browser, Google Play Apps and Music for their entertainment, YouTube for their Internet video needs, and even Google Drive, Docs, and other utilities for business and academic work. All of these aspects are under the Google name, and even under one single account.

This account stores your search history, user-names, emails, passwords for other websites, as well as addresses, credit cards, and other confidential information. While it is convenient for people to have all of their necessary information in one place, it can also be very dangerous. A scenario could occur where you were signed into your Google account on a public computer, and when you leave, you forget to sign out. In this case, anyone could access whatever is stored on this account, whether it is a document with health records or saved passwords that could give access to private accounts. This same sort of danger could happen if someone hacks into the same account by discovering your password. Additionally, if Google itself was hacked and people's’ information was leaked or stolen by the hackers, the same information would be compromised. Although these occurrences may be few and far between, it is still a risk and one should always consider what they want to be saved on their Google accounts.

Another downside of using one account with Google is that one may become too dependent on it. They may have all of their music, photos, videos, and work or school documents on Google but nowhere else. If Google were to be shut down or go off-line, even if only for a short amount of time, they may lose all of their memories and valued documents. Instead if they were to have backups on a local computer or use other cloud-based systems to share the storage, they could be able to save what they need. Even though Google has been very reliable in the past, there is no way of telling what may happen in the future so it would be beneficial to not be so reliant on Google and instead have a backup plan. Going along with this idea of not being able to always access Google, if one needed to access their documents and files but did not have an Internet connection, they would be unable to use anything stored in Google’s cloud services. If they were using a personal computer that had local copies of these files, then they would be able to use the files as needed no matter their Internet connection. As the saying goes, it is better to be safe than sorry.

Whatever happens on the Internet tracked by different companies whether it is your Internet service provider, the company that the site is for, or even third party advertisers. Since Google is a business, they have to make money. They do so by selling ad space to other companies and businesses. In recent years, ads have become more personal. They are targeted towards their audience. How do companies decide who to target? They use data that Google and other companies have given them so that they are able to identify which users are searching for similar products and then they can advertise to those specific users. This practice is commonplace all over the Internet. Facebook, YouTube, Google’s search pages, and countless others all participate in this advertising strategy. By using Google and being signed into one of their accounts, those users are able to be tracked easier and then are consistently targeted by ads. Although this happens throughout the Internet, Google is one of the major participants. If one wanted to maintain more privacy, then they may want to consider not using Google as much.

In conclusion, even though Google Accounts and all the tools made available from Google can be incredibly convenient due to the ability to synchronize much of one’s life and have nearly everything in one place, users should be wary of the possible consequences from trusting Google completely. They could have multiple accounts stolen if just one person gains access to this account and their whole livelihood could be flipped upside down. By storing passwords, documents, and memories on one Google account, they become too reliant and risk of losing it all at once becomes possible. With people relying heavily on using Google, they are also at risk of losing some of their privacy with their data being shared with other companies. Everything is linked together today, and although it has been helpful, it has the possibility to be harmful as well, so be careful with what is stored on the Internet.
