---
layout: post
title: Mechanical Keyboards
subtitle: An Unknown, Yet Fascinating Hobby
bigimg: /img/mech_kb.jpg
---

TL;DR: Along with the Internet, specialized communities have been able to thrive. The community dedicated to mechanical keyboards is one such example, and without finding this community, I would not have the same hobbies I do now.

Growing up in with the Internet readily available to me has allowed me to explore so much more of the world then I ever could have believed to be out there. One such aspect was building my own computer to play video games on. After finding communities on Reddit for PC building, I soon began to dive deeper into related subsets. This lead me to discover a hobby that I have sunk hundreds of dollars into; my collection and obsession over mechanical keyboards and key caps.

Wanting to make the most out of my gaming experience, I started to research different peripherals that would be the best for my usage. I kept seeing people talk about keyboards that were special and cost exuberant amounts of money. I wondered what was so special about them and why there were multiple sub-Reddits dedicated to them. Mechanical keyboards, I discovered, are keyboards that have individual switches under each key instead of typical keyboards that are connected to one piece of rubber that, when pushed, causes a response from the computer. There are multiple types of switches, distinguished by color, the company that produces them, and the way they are built and designed. Switches require different amounts of force before they register a click, and have designs for how it feels to type. The plastic caps with letters and numbers are able to be removed and replaced due to the individual switches. Because of this capability, it turns out that there are custom key cap makers and mass orders from within the community to create and buy new caps. Special artists have their own personalized designs for key caps and so, there are rare caps that may cost anywhere from $20 to $200. Additionally, entire sets of key caps for a whole keyboard with different styles and themes are constantly being designed and sold, often for a limited amount of time. There was so much more to this hobby than I had originally realized. Despite how odd this seemed to me at first, I quickly understood that this was something I loved.

After much research, I decided to order a Rosewill keyboard that had Cherry MX brown switches. These switches were recommended for being enjoyable to type on, yet not too loud. For the first few months, I was content with this being my only keyboard but as I continued to remain active in Reddit's mechanical keyboard community, I found myself wanting more. I wanted to try different types of switches, different colored lights, and different sizes of keyboards. I then bought a second keyboard, this time a second hand board from a fellow community member. This time, it was a Corsair K70 with Cherry MX blue switches and red LED lights below the keys. The new keyboard had different switches that were louder and have an additional click feeling when typing. Once again, I was content with my new keyboard. After another six months or so, I found myself looking at new key caps to buy and replace my ones that came with my keyboard. Unfortunately, the keyboard that I was enjoying had a few keys that were different sizes than the key caps that I so desperately needed. Once again, I found myself looking to buy a new keyboard. I decided to purchase a Cooler Master CM Storm QuickFire Rapid‑i with Cherry MX blue switches and white LED lights this time. It is a smaller board without the number pad past the arrow keys but had the same switches that I had been using. Finally, I was able to try a new size of keyboards and purchase new key caps to go with it. To buy new key caps, I participated in a group buy on a website called MassDrop where there more people that order the product, the lower the price you pay since making the caps in bulk is cheaper. After a couple of months of waiting, I finally received them and was finally able to customize my personal keyboard. It has been over a year and a half since I purchased this keyboard, and it is still the one I use whenever I am at home. I have replaced the key caps a second time with nicer ones from a different group buy.

Without the Internet, I would have never been able to discover many hobbies of mine. I would have never been able to learn how to build my own computers,  as well as explore mechanical keyboards, and multiple welcoming communities. I would not be where I am and who I am now without the Internet, although I may have been quite a bit wealthier.


Refernces:

<a title="Poker 2" href="https://flickr.com/photos/ydolon/16817789495">Poker 2</a> flickr photo by <a href="https://flickr.com/people/ydolon">amidnightpoem</a> shared under a <a href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/2.0/">Creative Commons (BY-NC-SA) license</a> </small>
