---
layout: post
title: Plagiarism
subtitle: Technology's Role In Curbing This Crime
image: /img/turnitin_square.jpg
bigimg: /img/mouse.jpg
---
TL;DR: Plagiarism is an issue that is being addressed through technology. Unfortunately, more action is needed by those in the field of academics to help prevent plagiarism.

As technology has advanced in recent years, so has academics and the resources available to those involved in academia. Today, millions of articles, journals, interviews, and countless other assets are available at anyone's fingertips. But as Stan Lee once said, "With great power comes great responsibility". This responsibility must be that with all of this information available to the world, it is expected for people to give proper credit to those that created it. Unfortunately, many people take others' ideas and work, and pass it off as their own. This act is known as plagiarism. Although some may say that plagiarism has been amplified by technology, technology has, in fact, made it more difficult for individuals to plagiarize. Even though there are technologies that have made it harder for people to plagiarize, they still are not enough to end this crime alone. Individuals and institutions involved in academia must also step in to end plagiarism and not solely rely on technological services.

Those that plagiarize often search for content that has already been created that relates to their own assignment. They then copy the original creator's work and claim it as their own. Plagiarism is theft, which harms creators, dissuades people from sharing their work with the world, and is ethically wrong. To combat this crime, applications have been designed to help check for plagiarism. These applications read through submitted content and compare it to other articles and papers that have already been published. After checking the entire article submitted, the application then identifies which parts are similar to content already submitted. This technology has made it harder for people to use other people's content as their own. As this technology becomes more prevalent and more advanced, people are attempting to find ways to bypass these roadblocks. Whether it is changing some characters to be different, yet still look the same, or inserting blank text, those that desire to plagiarize will try to avoid being caught. While this technology has been helpful to academic institutions for catching plagiarism, it is still not enough.

Plagiarism is a rampant issue that is plaguing the United States education system. It is prevalent in both high schools and in universities across the country. A Rutgers University study in the early 2000s, of over 63,000 undergraduate students, found that over a third of students admitted to “paraphrasing/copying few sentences from Internet source without footnoting it” as well as 38 percent admitting to "paraphrasing/copying few sentences from written source without footnoting it." ("Facts"). Even more concerning is that "7% self-report copying materials “almost word for word from a written source without citation" and "7% self-report “turning in work done by another" ("Facts"). While this data is now over a decade old, cheating and plagiarizing is still occurring today. In 2010, the same professor from Rutgers, Donald McCabe, found that out of 70,000 high school students, "58 percent admitted to plagiarism" ("Facts"). Clearly, this cheating in academia is a major issue and must be addressed.

As mentioned earlier, technology has become a crucial part in identifying and alerting people of plagiarism. One major website is Turnitin.com which has become the go-to website for identifying cheating in papers. As of 2014, Turnitin has over 26 million global users and 500 million submissions to it. Additionally, Turnitin has partnered with College Board to help prevent plagiarism in the SATs ("About"). Having used Turnitin myself, it is very accurate as it has identified quotes that I used as potential plagiarism. It also found descriptions of certain products in one of my articles and compared it to Amazon since they both mentioned specifics of the product.
Schools and professors should incorporate these current technologies more than they currently are, as it would be a helpful step to the elimination of plagiarism. While this identification technology is incredible, the fact that there is still a large amount of plagiarism means that it is not enough.

In addition to current technology, there should be training for those reviewing papers so that they could be more knowledgeable about plagiarism and be able to find it more easily. An idea for this training is that educational staff could have a mandatory course that helps them identify plagiarized content and patterns that could reveal plagiarizers. Additionally, those submitting content that could potentially be plagiarized should be aware of the downsides of plagiarism and how their actions could affect themselves and others. If someone potentially plagiarized, there should be an investigation to give them the benefit of the doubt, and then if found guilty, should face harsh consequences such as a failure in a class to discourage future incidents. Only by having human review of content and by holding those guilty accountable, can plagiarism truly be reduced.

With plagiarism remaining an issue in academia today, the use of modern technology has been useful in discovering it. More schools need to use this technology and they need to use it frequently to help curb this problem.  This identification however is not enough. Institutions must take it upon themselves to review submitted content with properly trained staff, as well as hold investigations into potential plagiarism, and hold perpetrators responsible for their actions. While some argue that modern technology has made plagiarizing easier, since plagiarism has been around for decades and that technology has made plagiarism harder to get away with, it is evident that technology is detrimental for those attempting to plagiarize, not beneficial. With the reduction of plagiarism, academics would be able to advance with more original content. It is absolutely necessary for plagiarism to be ended, but must be done so the help of technology and traditional methods.


Citations:

"About Us : Our Company." Turnitin. Turnitin LLC, 2017. Web. 24 Apr. 2017.

"Facts & Stats." Plagiarism.org. IParadigms LLC, n.d. Web. 24 Apr. 2017.

<a title="Mouse" href="https://flickr.com/photos/jim-makos/28056097556">Mouse</a> flickr photo by <a href="https://flickr.com/people/jim-makos">Jim Makos</a> shared under a <a href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nd/2.0/">Creative Commons (BY-ND) license</a>

<a title="Screenshot059" href="https://flickr.com/photos/jiscimages/436454662">Screenshot059</a> flickr photo by <a href="https://flickr.com/people/jiscimages">Jisc</a> shared under a <a href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/2.0/">Creative Commons (BY-NC-ND) license</a>
